# fakenews
Fake News Detection is a natural language processing task that involves identifying and classifying news articles or other types of text as real or fake. The goal of fake news detection is to develop algorithms that can automatically identify and flag fake news articles, which can be used to combat misinformation and promote the dissemination of accurate information.
Manual fact checking can address some of these challenges, for example when checking the consistency of news in different contexts. However, manual fact-checking is too slow to cover big information spreaders such as social media platforms. This is where automation comes into play. Automated fact-checking tools often combine different methods, for example artificial intelligence, natural language processing (analysing the language used) and blockchain. As regards to fake news embedded in images and videos, the tools often combine metadata; social interactions; visual cues; the profile of the source; and other contextual information surrounding an image or video to increase accuracy. 

Algorithms are trained to verify news content; detect amplification (excessive and/or targeted dissemination); spot fake accounts and detect campaigns. Often, the fake news analysis process applies several algorithms sequentially. However, effectiveness of these algorithms is yet to be improved. 

Even if fake news is spread heavily on social media, research has found that human behaviour (“word of mouth” marketing) contributes more to the spread of fake news than automated bots do. This shows that fighting the fake news sender is not the only approach. It also makes sense to increase the resilience to fake news on the side of the recipient and our society. Therefore, another important pillar of fake news detection is to increase citizens’ awareness and media literacy. 

